
                                  I

                                     Steventon: Saturday (January 9).

  In the first place I hope you will live twenty-three years longer.
  Mr. Tom Lefroy's birthday was yesterday, so that you are very near
  of an age.

  After this necessary preamble I shall proceed to inform you that we
  had an exceeding good ball last night, and that I was very much
  disappointed at not seeing Charles Fowle of the party, as I had
  previously heard of his being invited. In addition to our set at
  the Harwoods' ball, we had the Grants, St. Johns, Lady Rivers, her
  three daughters and a son, Mr. and Miss Heathcote, Mrs. Lefevre,
  two Mr. Watkins, Mr. J. Portal, Miss Deanes, two Miss Ledgers, and
  a tall clergyman who came with them, whose name Mary would never
  have guessed.

  We were so terrible good as to take James in our carriage, though
  there were three of us before, but indeed he deserves encouragement
  for the very great improvement which has lately taken place in his
  dancing. Miss Heathcote is pretty, but not near so handsome as I
  expected. Mr. H. began with Elizabeth, and afterwards danced with
  her again; but _they_ do not know how _to be particular_. I flatter
  myself, however, that they will profit by the three successive
  lessons which I have given them.

  You scold me so much in the nice long letter which I have this
  moment received from you, that I am almost afraid to tell you how
  my Irish friend and I behaved. Imagine to yourself everything most
  profligate and shocking in the way of dancing and sitting down
  together. I _can_ expose myself however, only _once more_, because
  he leaves the country soon after next Friday, on which day we _are_
  to have a dance at Ashe after all. He is a very gentlemanlike,
  good-looking, pleasant young man, I assure you. But as to our
  having ever met, except at the three last balls, I cannot say much;
  for he is so excessively laughed at about me at Ashe, that he is
  ashamed of coming to Steventon, and ran away when we called on
  Mrs. Lefroy a few days ago.

  We left Warren at Dean Gate, in our way home last night, and he is
  now on his road to town. He left his love, &c., to you, and I will
  deliver it when we meet. Henry goes to Harden to-day in his way to
  his Master's degree. We shall feel the loss of these two most
  agreeable young men exceedingly, and shall have nothing to console
  us till the arrival of the Coopers on Tuesday. As they will stay
  here till the Monday following, perhaps Caroline will go to the
  Ashe ball with me, though I dare say she will not.

  I danced twice with Warren last night, and once with Mr. Charles
  Watkins, and, to my inexpressible astonishment, I entirely escaped
  John Lyford. I was forced to fight hard for it, however. We had a
  very good supper, and the greenhouse was illuminated in a very
  elegant manner.

  We had a visit yesterday morning from Mr. Benjamin Portal, whose
  eyes are as handsome as ever. Everybody is extremely anxious for
  your return, but as you cannot come home by the Ashe ball, I am
  glad that I have not fed them with false hopes. James danced with
  Alithea, and cut up the turkey last night with great perseverance.
  You say nothing of the silk stockings; I flatter myself, therefore,
  that Charles has not purchased any, as I cannot very well afford to
  pay for them; all my money is spent in buying white gloves and pink
  persian. I wish Charles had been at Manydown, because he would have
  given you some description of my friend, and I think you must be
  impatient to hear something about him.

  Henry is still hankering after the Regulars, and as his project of
  purchasing the adjutancy of the Oxfordshire is now over, he has got
  a scheme in his head about getting a lieutenancy and adjutancy in
  the 86th, a new-raised regiment, which he fancies will be ordered
  to the Cape of Good Hope. I heartily hope that he will, as usual,
  be disappointed in this scheme. We have trimmed up and given away
  all the old paper hats of Mamma's manufacture; I hope you will not
  regret the loss of yours.

  After I had written the above, we received a visit from Mr. Tom
  Lefroy and his cousin George. The latter is really very
  well-behaved now; and as for the other, he has but one fault, which
  time will, I trust, entirely remove -- it is that his morning coat
  is a great deal too light. He is a very great admirer of Tom Jones,
  and therefore wears the same coloured clothes, I imagine, which _he_
  did when he was wounded.

  _Sunday._ -- By not returning till the 19th, you will exactly
  contrive to miss seeing the Coopers, which I suppose it is your
  wish to do. We have heard nothing from Charles for some time. One
  would suppose they must have sailed by this time, as the wind is so
  favourable. What a funny name Tom has got for his vessel! But he
  has no taste in names, as we well know, and I dare say he
  christened it himself. I am sorry for the Beaches' loss of their
  little girl, especially as it is the one so much like me.

  I condole with Miss M. on her losses and with Eliza on her gains,
  and am ever yours,

                                                                J. A.

   To Miss Austen,
  Rev. Mr. Fowle's, Kintbury, Newbury.

