
                                  II

                                     Steventon: Thursday (January 16)

  I have just received yours and Mary's letter, and I thank you both,
  though their contents might have been more agreeable. I do not at
  all expect to see you on Tuesday, since matters have fallen out so
  pleasantly; and if you are not able to return till after that day,
  it will hardly be possible for us to send for you before Saturday,
  though for my own part I care so little about the ball that it
  would be no sacrifice to me to give it up for the sake of seeing
  you two days earlier. We are extremely sorry for poor Eliza's
  illness. I trust, however, that she has continued to recover since
  you wrote, and that you will none of you be the worse for your
  attendance on her. What a good-for-nothing fellow Charles is to
  bespeak the stockings! I hope he will be too hot all the rest of
  his life for it!

  I sent you a letter yesterday to Ibthorp, which I suppose you will
  not receive at Kintbury. It was not very long or very witty, and
  therefore if you never receive it, it does not much signify. I
  wrote principally to tell you that the Coopers were arrived and in
  good health. The little boy is very like Dr. Cooper, and the little
  girl is to resemble Jane, they say.

  Our party to Ashe to-morrow night will consist of Edward Cooper,
  James (for a ball is nothing without _him_), Buller, who is now
  staying with us, and I. I look forward with great impatience to it,
  as I rather expect to receive an offer from my friend in the course
  of the evening. I shall refuse him, however, unless he promises to
  give away his white coat.

  I am very much flattered by your commendation of my last letter,
  for I write only for fame, and without any view to pecuniary
  emolument.

  Edward is gone to spend the day with his friend, John Lyford, and
  does not return till to-morrow. Anna is now here; she came up in
  her chaise to spend the day with her young cousins, but she does
  not much take to them or to anything about them, except Caroline's
  spinning-wheel. I am very glad to find from Mary that Mr. and
  Mrs. Fowle are pleased with you. I hope you will continue to give
  satisfaction.

  How impertinent you are to write to me about Tom, as if I had not
  opportunities of hearing from him myself! The _last_ letter that I
  received from him was dated on Friday, 8th, and he told me that if
  the wind should be favourable on Sunday, which it proved to be,
  they were to sail from Falmouth on that day. By this time,
  therefore, they are at Barbadoes, I suppose. The Rivers are still
  at Manydown, and are to be at Ashe to-morrow. I intended to call on
  the Miss Biggs yesterday had the weather been tolerable. Caroline,
  Anna, and I have just been devouring some cold souse, and it would
  be difficult to say which enjoyed it most.

  Tell Mary that I make over Mr. Heartley and all his estate to her
  for her sole use and benefit in future, and not only him, but all
  my other admirers into the bargain wherever she can find them, even
  the kiss which C. Powlett wanted to give me, as I mean to confine
  myself in future to Mr. Tom Lefroy, for whom I don't care sixpence.
  Assure her also, as a last and indubitable proof of Warren's
  indifference to me, that he actually drew that gentleman's picture
  for me, and delivered it to me without a sigh.

  _Friday._ -- At length the day is come on which I am to flirt my
  last with Tom Lefroy, and when you receive this it will be over. My
  tears flow as I write at the melancholy idea. Wm. Chute called here
  yesterday. I wonder what he means by being so civil. There is a
  report that Tom is going to be married to a Lichfield lass. John
  Lyford and his sister bring Edward home today, dine with us, and we
  shall all go together to Ashe. I understand that we are to draw for
  partners. I shall be extremely impatient to hear from you again,
  that I may know how Eliza is, and when you are to return.

  With best love, &c., I am affectionately yours,

                                                           J. AUSTEN.

   Miss Austen,
  The Rev. Mr. Fowle's, Kintbury, Newbury.

