
                                  IV

                                     Rowling: Thursday (September 1).

  MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,

  The letter which I have this moment received from you has diverted
  me beyond moderation. I could die of laughter at it, as they used
  to say at school. You are indeed the finest comic writer of the
  present age.

  Since I wrote last, we have been very near returning to Steventon
  so early as next week. Such, for a day or two, was our dear brother
  Henry's scheme, but at present matters are restored, not to what
  they were, for my absence seems likely to be lengthened still
  farther. I am sorry for it, but what can I do?

  Henry leaves us to-morrow for Yarmouth, as he wishes very much to
  consult his physician there, on whom he has great reliance. He is
  better than he was when he first came, though still by no means
  well. According to his present plan, he will not return here till
  about the 28rd, and bring with him, if he can, leave of absence for
  three weeks, as he wants very much to have some shooting at
  Godmersham, whither Edward and Elizabeth are to remove very early
  in October. If this scheme holds, I shall hardly be at Steventon
  before the middle of that month; but if you cannot do without me, I
  could return, I suppose, with Frank if he ever goes back. He enjoys
  himself here very much, for he has just learnt to turn, and is so
  delighted with the employment, that he is at it all day long.

  I am sorry that you found such a conciseness in the strains of my
  first letter. I must endeavour to make you amends for it, when we
  meet, by some elaborate details, which I shall shortly begin
  composing.

  I have had my new gown made up, and it really makes a very superb
  surplice. I am sorry to say that my new coloured gown is very much
  washed out, though I charged everybody to take great care of it. I
  hope yours is so too. Our men had but indifferent weather for their
  visit to Godmersham, for it rained great part of the way there and
  all the way back. They found Mrs. Knight remarkably well and in
  very good spirits. It is imagined that she will shortly be married
  again. I have taken little George once in my arms since I have been
  here, which I thought very kind. I have told Fanny about the bead
  of her necklace, and she wants very much to know where you found
  it.

  To-morrow I shall be just like Camilla in Mr. Dubster's
  summer-house, for my Lionel will have taken away the ladder by
  which I came here, or at least by which I intended to get away, and
  here I must stay till his return. My situation, however, is
  somewhat preferable to hers, for I am very happy here, though I
  should be glad to get home by the end of the month. I have no idea
  that Miss Pearson will return with me.

  What a fine fellow Charles is, to deceive us into writing two
  letters to him at Cork! I admire his ingenuity extremely,
  especially as he is so great a gainer by it.

  Mr. and Mrs. Cage and Mr. and Mrs. Bridges dined with us yesterday.
  Fanny seemed as glad to see me as anybody, and inquired very much
  after you, whom she supposed to be making your wedding-clothes. She
  is as handsome as ever, and somewhat fatter. We had a very pleasant
  day, and some _liqueurs_ in the evening. Louisa's figure is very
  much improved; she is as stout again as she was. Her face, from
  what I could see of it one evening, appeared not at all altered.
  She and the gentlemen walked up here on Monday night -- she came in
  the morning with the Cages from Hythe.

  Lady Hales, with her two youngest daughters, have been to see us.
  Caroline is not grown at all coarser than she was, nor Harriet at
  all more delicate. I am glad to hear so good an account of
  Mr. Charde, and only fear that my long absence may occasion his
  relapse. I practise every day as much as I can -- I wish it were
  more for his sake. I have heard nothing of Mary Robinson since I
  have been (here). I expect to be well scolded for daring to doubt,
  whenever the subject is mentioned.

  Frank has turned a very nice little butterchurn for Fanny. I do not
  believe that any of the party were aware of the valuables they had
  left behind; nor can I hear anything of Anna's gloves. Indeed I
  have not inquired at all about them hitherto.

  We are very busy making Edward's shirts, and I am proud to say that
  I am the neatest worker of the party. They say that there are a
  prodigious number of birds hereabouts this year, so that perhaps _I_
  may kill a few. I am glad to hear so good an account of Mr. Limprey
  and J. Lovett. I know nothing of my mother's handkerchief, but I
  dare say I shall find it soon.

                    I am very affectionately yours,

                                                                JANE.

   Miss Austen, Steventon, Overton, Hants.

