
                                  V

                                       Rowling: Monday (September 5).

  MY DEAR CASSANDRA,

  I shall be extremely anxious to hear the event of your ball, and
  shall hope to receive so long and minute an account of every
  particular that I shall be tired of reading it. Let me know how
  many, besides their fourteen selves and Mr. and Mrs. Wright,
  Michael will contrive to place about their coach, and how many of
  the gentlemen, musicians, and waiters, he will have persuaded to
  come in their shooting-jackets. I hope John Lovett's accident will
  not prevent his attending the ball, as you will otherwise be
  obliged to dance with Mr. Tincton the whole evening. Let me know
  how J. Harwood deports himself without the Miss Biggs, and which of
  the Marys will carry the day with my brother James.

  We were at a ball on Saturday, I assure you. We dined at
  Goodnestone, and in the evening danced two country-dances and the
  Boulangeries. I opened the ball with Edward Bridges; the other
  couples were Lewis Cage and Harriet, Frank and Louisa, Fanny and
  George. Elizabeth played one country-dance, Lady Bridges the other,
  which she made Henry dance with her, and Miss Finch played the
  Boulangeries.

  In reading over the last three or four lines, I am aware of my
  having expressed myself in so doubtful a manner that, if I did not
  tell you to the contrary, you might imagine it was Lady Bridges who
  made Henry dance with her at the same time that she was playing,
  which, if not impossible, must appear a very improbable event to
  you. But it was Elizabeth who danced. We supped there, and walked
  home at night under the shade of two umbrellas.

  To-day the Goodnestone party begins to disperse and spread itself
  abroad. Mr. and Mrs. Cage and George repair to Hythe. Lady Waltham,
  Miss Bridges, and Miss Mary Finch to Dover, for the health of the
  two former. I have never seen Marianne at all. On Thursday Mr. and
  Mrs. Bridges return to Danbury; Miss Harriet Hales accompanies them
  to London on her way to Dorsetshire.

  Farmer Claringbould died this morning, and I fancy Edward means to
  get some of his farm, if he can cheat Sir Brook enough in the
  agreement.

  We have just got some venison from Godmersham, which the two
  Mr. Harveys are to dine on to-morrow, and on Friday or Saturday the
  Goodnestone people are to finish their scraps. Henry went away on
  Friday, as he purposed, _without fayl_. You will hear from him
  soon, I imagine, as he talked of writing to Steventon shortly.
  Mr. Richard Harvey is going to be married; but as it is a great
  secret, and only known to half the neighbourhood, you must not
  mention it. The lady's name is Musgrave.

  I am in great distress. I cannot determine whether I shall give
  Richis half a guinea or only five shillings when I go away. Counsel
  me, amiable Miss Austen, and tell me which will be the most.

  We walked Frank last night to Crixhall Ruff, and he appeared much
  edified. Little Edward was breeched yesterday for good and all, and
  was whipped into the bargain.

  Pray remember me to everybody who does not inquire after me; those
  who do, remember me without bidding. Give my love to Mary Harrison,
  and tell her I wish, whenever she is attached to a young man, some
  _respectable_ Dr. Marchmont may keep them apart for five volumes.

                             . . . . . . .


