
                                  VI

                                    Rowling: Thursday (September 15).

  MY DEAR CASSANDRA,

  We have been very gay since I wrote last; dining at Nackington,
  returning by moonlight, and everything quite in style, not to
  mention Mr. Claringbould's funeral which we saw go by on Sunday.

  I believe I told you in a former letter that Edward had some idea
  of taking the name of Clarmgbould; but that scheme is over, though
  it would be a very eligible as well as a very pleasant plan, would
  anyone advance him money enough to begin on. We rather expected
  Mr. Milles to have done so on Tuesday; but to our great surprise
  nothing was said on the subject, and unless it is in your power to
  assist your brother with five or six hundred pounds, he must
  entirely give up the idea.

  At Nackington we met Lady Sondes' picture over the mantel-piece in
  the dining-room, and the pictures of her three children in an ante
  room, besides Mr. Scott, Miss Fletcher, Mr. Toke, Mr. J. Toke, and
  the Archdeacon Lynch. Miss Fletcher and I were very thick, but I am
  the thinnest of the two. She wore her purple muslin, which is
  pretty enough, though it does not become her complexion. There are
  two traits in her character which are pleasing -- namely, she
  admires Camilla, and drinks no cream in her tea. If you should ever
  see Lucy, you may tell her that I scolded Miss Fletcher for her
  negligence in writing, as she desired me to do, but without being
  able to bring her to any proper sense of shame -- that Miss
  Fletcher says in her defence, that as everybody whom Lucy knew when
  she was in Canterbury has now left it, she has nothing at all to
  write to her about. By _everybody_, I suppose Miss Fletcher means
  that a new set of officers have arrived there. But this is a note
  of my own.

  Mrs. Milles, Mr. John Toke, and in short everybody of any
  sensibility inquired in tender strains after you, and I took an
  opportunity of assuring Mr. J. T. that neither he nor his father
  need longer keep themselves single for you.

  We went in our two carriages to Nackington; but how we divided I
  shall leave you to surmise, merely observing that, as Elizabeth and
  I were without either hat or bonnet, it would not have been very
  convenient for us to go in the chaise. We went by Bifrons, and I
  contemplated with a melancholy pleasure the abode of him on whom I
  once fondly doated. We dine to-day at Goodnestone, to meet my Aunt
  Fielding from Margate and a Mr. Clayton, her professed admirer --
  at least so I imagine. Lady Bridges has received very good accounts
  of Marianne, who is already certainly the better for her bathing.

  So His Royal Highness Sir Thomas Williams has at length sailed; the
  papers say "on a cruise." But I hope they are gone to Cork, or I
  shall have written in vain. Give my love to Jane, as she arrived at
  Steventon yesterday, I dare say.

  I sent a message to Mr. Digweed from Edward in a letter to Mary
  Lloyd which she ought to receive to-day; but as I know that the
  Harwoods are not very exact as to their letters, I may as well
  repeat it to you. Mr. Digweed is to be informed that illness has
  prevented Seward's coming over to look at the repairs intended at
  the farm, but that he will come as soon as he can. Mr. Digweed may
  also be informed, if you think proper, that Mr. and Mrs. Milles are
  to dine here to-morrow, and that Mrs. Joan Knatchbull is to be
  asked to meet them. Mr. Richard Harvey's match is put off till he
  has got a better Christian name, of which he has great hopes.

  Mr. Children's two sons are both going to be married, John and
  George. They are to have one wife between them, a Miss Holwell, who
  belongs to the Black Hole at Calcutta. I depend on hearing from
  James very soon; he promised me an account of the ball, and by this
  time he must have collected his ideas enough after the fatigue of
  dancing to give me one.

  Edward and Fly went out yesterday very early in a couple of
  shooting jackets, and came home like a couple of bad shots, for
  they killed nothing at all. They are out again to-day, and are not
  yet returned. Delightful sport! They are just come home, Edward
  with his two brace, Frank with his two and a half. What amiable
  young men!

  _Friday._ -- Your letter and one from Henry are just come, and the
  contents of both accord with my scheme more than I had dared
  expect. In one particular I could wish it otherwise, for Henry is
  very indifferent indeed. You must not expect us quite so early,
  however, as Wednesday, the 20th -- on that day se'nnight, according
  to our present plan, we may be with you. Frank had never any idea
  of going away before Monday, the 26th. I shall write to Miss Mason
  immediately and press her returning with us, which Henry thinks
  very likely and particularly eligible.

  Buy Mary Harrison's gown by all means. You shall have mine for ever
  so much money, though, if I am tolerably rich when I get home, I
  shall like it very much myself.

  As to the mode of our travelling to town, _I_ want to go in a
  stage-coach, but Frank will not let me. As you are likely to have
  the Williams and Lloyds with you next week, you would hardly find
  room for us then. If anyone wants anything in town, they must send
  their commissions to Frank, as _I_ shall merely pass through it.
  The tallow-chandler is Penlington, at the Crown and Beehive,
  Charles Street, Covent Garden.

   Miss Austen, Steventon, Overton, Hants.


