
                                 VII

                                      Rowling: Sunday (September 18.)

  MY DEAR CASSANDRA,

  This morning has been spent in doubt and deliberation, in forming
  plans and removing difficulties, for it ushered in the day with an
  event which I had not intended should take place so soon by a week.
  Frank has received his appointment on board the "Captain John
  Gore," commanded by the "Triton," and will therefore be obliged to
  be in town on Wednesday; and though I have every disposition in the
  world to accompany him on that day, I cannot go on the uncertainty
  of the Pearsons being at home, as I should not have a place to go
  to in case they were from home.

  I wrote to Miss P. on Friday, and hoped to receive an answer from
  her this morning, which would have rendered everything smooth and
  easy, and would have enabled us to leave this place to-morrow, as
  Frank, on first receiving his appointment, intended to do. He
  remains till Wednesday merely to accommodate me. I have written to
  her again to-day, and desired her to answer it by return of post.
  On Tuesday, therefore, I shall positively know whether they can
  receive me on Wednesday. If they cannot, Edward has been so good as
  to promise to take me to Greenwich on the Monday following, which
  was the day before fixed on, if that suits them better. If I have
  no answer at all on Tuesday, I must suppose Mary is not at home,
  and must wait till I _do_ hear, as, after having invited her to go
  to Steventon with me, it will not quite do to go home and say no
  more about it.

  My father will be so good as to fetch home his prodigal daughter
  from town, I hope, unless he wishes me to walk the hospitals, enter
  at the Temple, or mount guard at St. James'. It will hardly be in
  Frank's power to take me home -- nay, it certainly will not. I
  shall write again as soon as I get to Greenwich.

  What dreadful hot weather we have! It keeps one in a continual
  state of inelegance.

  If Miss Pearson should return with me, pray be careful not to
  expect too much beauty. I will not pretend to say that _on a first
  view_ she quite answered the opinion I had formed of her. My
  mother, I am sure, will be disappointed if she does not take great
  care. From what I remember of her picture, it is no great
  resemblance.

  I am very glad that the idea of returning with Frank occurred to
  me; for as to Henry's coming into Kent again, the time of its
  taking place is so very uncertain that I should be waiting for
  _dead men's shoes_. I had once determined to go with Frank
  to-morrow and take my chance, &c., but they dissuaded me from so
  rash a step, as I really think on consideration it would have been;
  for if the Pearsons were not at home, I should inevitably fall a
  sacrifice to the arts of some fat woman who would make me drunk
  with small beer.

  Mary is brought to bed of a boy -- both doing very well. I shall
  leave you to guess what Mary I mean. Adieu, with best love to all
  your agreeable inmates. Don't let the Lloyds go on any account
  before I return, unless Miss P. is of the party. How ill I have
  written! I begin to hate myself.      Yours ever,      J. AUSTEN.

  The "Triton" is a new 32 frigate just launch at Deptford. Frank is
  much pleased with the prospect of having Captain Gore under his
  command.

   Miss Austen, Steventon, Overton, Hants.

